---
layout: post
title: Ambassadors of Reality
image: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/samueltbentz/samueltbentz.github.io/master/images/knight.jpeg
subtitle: Living Public Lives in Negative World
---

One of C.S. Lewis' lesser known writings is a short essay entitled, "The Necessity of Chivalry." Lewis fondly recalls the days of knighthood and chivalry explaining, "The knight is a man of blood and iron, a man familiar with the sight of smashed faces and the ragged stumps of lopped-off limbs; he is also a demure, almost a maidenlike, guest in hall, a gentle, modest, unobtrusive man. He is not a compromise or happy mean between ferocity and meekness; he is fierce to the *nth* and meek to the *nth*." Lewis goes on to highlight how chivalry, in its original understanding, was no longer being inculcated into society at the time of his writing.

>"But the maintenance of that life depends, in part, on knowing that the knightly character is art not nature - something that needs to be achieved, not something that can be relied upon to happen. And this knowledge is specially necessary as we grow more democratic. In previous centuries the vestiges of chivalry were kept alive by a specialized class, from whom they spread to other classes partly by imitation and partly by coercion. Now, it seems, the people must either be chivalrous on its own resources, or else choose between the two remaining alternatives of brutality and softness. This is, indeed, part of the general problem of a classless society, which is too seldom mentioned. Will its ethos be a synthesis of what was best in all the classes, or a mere “pool” with the sediment of all and the virtues of none?

One critical feature of Negative World is that a society hostile towards Christianity will in turn negatively reinforce Christian faithfulness. Living in Negative World means that a Christian often has to fight against the current of the prevailing culture in order to live faithfully. He cannot rely on Christian behaviors and virtues to be reinforced or promoted culturally. Timothy Carney's compelling new book on the falling birth rates in America, "Family Unfriendly", effectively illustrates this point. He explores America as a "culture of sterility" and while he acknowledges the real effects of birth control and feminism, he also recognizes that the issue is compounding. A society that does not have children or appreciate children will continue in its regression and become a society that is not built to accomodate or welcome children. This of course then results in fewer children being born. However, the findings, as Carney observes, are actually two-sided. For example, Catholics in Utah have more children than Catholics elsewhere, likely because of their proximity to their Mormon neighbors. Secular Jews in Israel have higher birthrates than every European nation, likely because of the pro-natal culture of the religious Jews also present in Israel. Falling birth rates are compounding nationally but at the local level, there is still the opportunity for birth rates to positively compound. Anglican priest, Dustin Messer, describes this relationship our locale has on us,
>We each live in particular places, and despite the best efforts of social media, our inhabitation still bears starkly on our person. After answering our first question it would have been easy to surmise that the way to change the country is to change the neighborhood and the way to change the neighborhood is to change the individual. Sampson helped us see that such a simplistic formula doesn't grapple appropraitely with the formative dialectic at play between the neighbor and the neighborhood. Yes, the neighbor forms the neighborhood, but so too does the neighborhood form the neighbor. The church, then, should not only seek to make Christians of her neighbords but micro-Christendoms of her neighborhoods.

This presents an interesting opportunity for Christians in Negative World where our words will often be dismissed, disregarded and actively pushed out of the public conversation. As Aaron Renn writes in his book, "The negative world thus augurs for a shift in emphasis away from relevance and transformation toward being a counterculture." The aim for Christians should instead be to welcome difference and distinctiveness. This is fundamentally different from the "faithful presence" strategy of neutral world, which Renn explained in his book saying, "Rather than fighting against the culture, they were explicitly positive toward it." Renn summarizes this approach saying, "The emphasis is on strengthening our own distinctiveness as the church while not neglecting and even strengthening our dedication to mission." In practice, Christians can distinguish themselves from the present culture in very simple ways like dressing with dignity, strictly observing the Sabbath, or getting married and having children. Successfully navigating life in the Negative World will likely necessitate sacrifices and practices that were not previously necessary. In order to meaningfully strengthen our own distinctiveness, it is important for Christians to understand the role of optics and showcasing a faithful Christian life publicly. As Messer noted earlier, discipling our neighbors will involve more than just evangelistic conversations. Mundane, simple acts can be culturally significant as Carney observed and have the ability to actually bring about change in the lives of our unbelieving neighbors.

The call is for Christians to be visibly recognizable as Christians. This ultimately demands that Christians live public lives. In Negative World, there is certainly a risk to living publicly and therefore temptations to remain pricate. Losing friendships or employment opportunities for sincere Christian beliefs is sadly a reality. However, a culture that smiles on the bad and frowns on the good will only continue in its decline unless there is a significant change.

Engaging in political polemics is at times necessary and yet, Christians can positively present an alternative and attractive path simply by living faithfully and publicly. As Stephen Wolfe said, Christians should function as "ambassadors of reality" in our culture, testifying to and representing what is true, good and beautiful. In a declining society, distinguishing ourselves from the ugliness of our culture will not only strengthen Christians but also serve as an evangelistic method for those discontented with the current cultural offering.

****
