---
layout: post
title: Smoking Flax
image: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/samueltbentz/samueltbentz.github.io/master/images/scythe.jpg
subtitle: When Normal is Weird
---

Journalist Matt Taibbi of Racket News recently went on Tucker Carlson's show to discuss Russia and the media in our upside down world. Towards the end of the interview, they began discussing the role of our cultural elites today and their commitment to seeing the nation destroyed. Tucker expressed that today's battle is deeper than elites simply being motivated by financial gain but rather what we are seeing is spiritual. He explains, "I think they want to extinguish this society. I don't see a rational explanation for any of this behavior at all. It doesn't advance anyone's aims, including their own." He further explains that for the elites in DC, both left and right, it is not about outcomes. It is evident, as Tucker observes, that people in D.C. don't merely look down on the rest of America but openly hate the people they purport to represent. There is actual and real hostility present. Tucker goes on to say, "Imagine a Democrat winning any county in West Virginia." Taibbi immediately responds by saying, "Well, they wouldn't want to win." The populist movement in support of Donald Trump is growing and its fundamental ethos is a rejection of those D.C. elites. Tucker explains, referring to everyday Americans. "That's Trump's secret, he doesn't hate them." Taibbi, in turn responds by saying, “He loves them."

This is perhaps why Trump chose Vance as his VP running-mate. Vance became a known figure publicly for writing a book that offered a sympathetic and humanizing look at the plight of poor white workingmen. Vance represents the best of the “deplorables” and his book clearly highlights not only a love of America but also a particular love of his fellow working class Americans. The response from the left, in turn, to Vance being selected has been fascinating to watch. A seemingly regular, accomplished white guy has garnered responses labeling him as evil and most notably, "weird". Setting aside the sophmoric language, Vance, a married father of three represents a lot of us in America who seek a better life for ourselves and our families by trying to do the right things and working hard. Labeling Vance as "weird" then becomes a proxy attack against the millions of regular American men who lead relatively normal lives of getting married, having kids, and working jobs. The goal for these people is to ensure that which is normal is seen as weird and that which is truly weird is normalized and affirmed. Christians have an opportunity to celebrate the Vances in our communities. We welcome the men who are working hard, getting married, starting families, and loving their communities and nation. J.C. Ryle in his book, Duties of Parents, exhorts parents to let their children "see that they love them." His encouragement is not just to love your children, but to love them in such a way that your children actually see the love you have for them. Countless men in America are waking up isolated, lonely, and realize they don’t have anyone in their corners. The fellowship, love and support that should be present in Christian households and communities should be as light in the darkness for men without any direction and without a cultural or political home.

Relatedly, in a recent First Things article, James Wood argued for a shifting of methods and emphases away from preferential treatment of the Left and towards the more fertile soil of what he termed “reality-respecters.” He explains, “In view of the growing recognition that the continuance of Western civilization depends on Christianity, the church should ready itself to receive an influx of refugees from the cultural wasteland wrought by attacks on the faith.” The critical questions of our time are what will turn people away from the ugliness of the world and when they do turn away, to what will they turn? Wood further notes, “These refugees crave clarity about basic moral realities because of how much confusion the negative world has produced. They are looking for voices who stand up to the civilization destroyers--maybe even voices who boldly proclaim supernatural truths.” Are Christians eagerly putting their voices forward so that they are the loudest proclaiming moral clarity to a confused nation?

Puritan Richard Sibbes is most famous for his book entitled “The Bruised Reed.” In the book, Sibbes exposits Isaiah 42:3 which Jesus Himself quotes in Matthew 12:21, *“A bruised reed shall he not break, and the smoking flax shall he not quench: he shall bring forth judgment unto truth.“* Sibbes offers Gospel encouragement for those who seemingly have little or weak faith reassuring readers of the patience and forebearance of God. He explains the core concept, “The bruised reed is a man that for the most part is in some misery, as those were that came to Christ for help, and by misery he is brought to see sin as the cause of it.” Sibbes is perhaps relevant for a time in which many reality-respecting Americans see the misery of this world, and maybe even their own lives. The task of Christians will be to connect the dots for these people that they may be “brought to see sin as the cause of it.” If those in our lives are willing to say truths that would be considered “wrong” by the prevailing mainstream culture, we ought to encourage them and identify them as fertile soil. Even something as simple as men should not play women's sports. Yes, that is a very low bar but in today's world, such a statement is liable for punishment from the elites. Consider Sibbes again as he wisely encourages readers about the patience of Christ, “How gently did He endure the unbelief of Thomas and stooped so far unto his weakness, as to suffer him to thrust his hand into His side.” As Wood notes, this patience and endurance ought to extend even, and maybe especially, to the dissident right. They may need to be reined in at times, however, in times like today, we should welcome them and thank God for such men and women. Sibbes offers another helpful reminder, 
>“Excess of passion in opposing evil, though not to be justified, yet shows a better spirit than a calm temper where there is just cause of being moved. It is better that the water should run somewhat muddily than not run at all. Job had more grace in his ill temper than his friends in their seemingly wise demeanour. Actions stained with some defects are more acceptable than empty compliments.”

The work of the Christian today is to find shared resistance to the ugliness of the world and help them to see the evils of this world as living out of step with God's law and reality. Concluding with Sibbes once again, Christians should endeavor to make it easier for lost souls to find their way out of the gutter and into the light. “Nothing is so certain as that which is certain after doubts. Shaking settles and roots. In a contentious age, it is a wise thing to be a Christian, and to know what to pitch our souls upon. It is an office of love here to take away the stones, and to smooth the  way to heaven.”
