---
layout: post
title: Just Say No
image: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/samueltbentz/samueltbentz.github.io/master/images/reading.jpeg
subtitle: Meaningful Opposition to Government Schools
---

Last week, Republican House Representative Brandi Bradley of Littleton (HD-39) had a viral post on her X [account](https://x.com/bradleyforco/status/1826307043684135239) about her son’s experience in his high school world history class. Apparently the teacher of the class, a longtime educator in the “Conservative” Douglas County School District, was teaching on gender fluidity in relation to artist, Leonardo da Vinci. After showing a video which suggested da Vinci was possibly an homosexual, the teacher floated the idea that da Vinci was also "gender fluid" and the Mona Lisa painting was perhaps a self-portrait of his feminine identity. The whole thing is of course ridiculous and Representative Bradley is absolutely in the right to bring it to public attention and fight back. However, with further information provided, Rep. Bradley's situation sadly becames a helpful case study on the ineffectiveness of the Right in politics and culture today.

Rep. Bradley was on Monday's edition of the Jeff & Bill Radio Show to discuss what happened to her son and the state of public education in Colorado. Recounting the story on the show, Representative Bradley mentioned that her son’s teacher has 4 different LGBTQ+ flags hanging in the classroom. This is a stunning admission. The teacher clearly didn't go "off script" and happened to insert her own agenda into a discussion of da Vinci. This teacher is actively promoting the LGBTQ+ lifestyle each day. Futhermore, given the classroom setup, why is anyone surprised at her comments on da Vinci? If a teacher can hang not 1, but 4 different pride flags in her classroom, why wouldn't the teacher also feel comfortable talking about gender fluidity in her classroom?

Again, Rep. Bradley is doing the right thing by fighting back and these crazy stories really can be helpful politically and culturally in opening the eyes of those not yet convinced of the depth of rot in the public school system. However, those on the Right in Colorado have to seriously consider what meaningful opposition looks like in the face of real challenges. To what end are parents fighting back against the "woke agenda" in government schools? What is the end goal? Are parents content with teachers being able to hang pride flags in classrooms as long as they don't talk about it? If a teacher is permitted and emboldened to put up 4 different pride flags in a Conservative school district, the message to parents should be that the government school system is already compromised. Christians and those on the Right can be schocked all they want but at this point they should not expect anything different. The only option at this point is to opt out. Do not send your children to government schools. As Pastor Voddie Baucham has said, “We cannot continue to send our children to Caesar for their education and be surprised when they come home as Romans.”

One of the fundamental and primary duties of Christians parents, and specifically fathers, is to protect our children and to "bring them up in the nurture and admonition of the Lord." (*Ephesians 6:4*). It is not the job of the government to educate your children nor should you let them. The Colorado State Board of Education approved new standards in 2022 which will take effect this school year to incorporate "historical and civic contributions of LGBTQ+" *beginning in first grade*. To her credit, Representative Bradley has been [outspoken](https://www.dailysignal.com/2024/08/26/parents-outraged-colorados-lgbtq-history-lessons-starting-first-grade-fall/) against this development as well. Christian parents can and should fight back against the horrors of our government schools while not participating. Regardless of the financial cost to a family, Christians parents must opt out and not be willing to send their children to government schools. There are few ways we can more meaningfully fight back against the Left in our state than refusing to let the government train our children.
