---
layout: post
title: Motherhood in America
image: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/samueltbentz/samueltbentz.github.io/master/images/theodore.jpg
subtitle: The Civic Good of Motherhood
---

In a recent talk at the  Natal Conference, Jonathan Keeperman (otherwise known as Lomez) wisely warned of the danger of participating in the political discussion around having children. While courageously calling for the disbanding of the conference at which he spoke, Keeperman explained that the act of becoming a parent and starting a family ought to be natural and pre-political. "The miracle of having kids belongs to God, not to Caesar," he says. The Natal Conference has a particular eye towards the falling fertility rate in America and around the world. Given those alarming statistics, Keeperman acknowledges the danger of the demographic future of humanity but believes an effective response "requires stepping back from anxiety-driven politics and embracing a healthier, more natural relationship with parenthood itself." For Keeperman, the aim of having children is not to win a political contest by outbreeding the Left but rather embracing parenthood as an end unto itself.

Keeperman's exhortations are appropriate and necessary given the over-politicization of all aspects of life, including having children. He is also correct in identifying the folly of heavy-handed, coercive pressure to increase the number of children born each year. Children are not political trophies to be displayed and his proposals are a breath of fresh air. However, such an approach will fall short if it fails to also acknowledge the social and political good of parenthood. His speech, perhaps ironically given to an overwhelmingly male audience, was not directed towards women in particular but the reality in America today is that women are increasingly trending Leftward. Being on the Left these days politically means affirmation of abortion, LGBTQ+, illegal immigration and soft on crime policies. But it also means a rejection of the natural family and a rejection of parenthood. Keeperman's inclination to return to a state of nature is good, but for women today, becoming a mother has become a personal choice; a choice which many are increasingly declining. Nature previously demanded men working outside the home and women in the home, but in an age of decadence and abundance, women are presented the option to pursue motherhood or to leave it behind. Choosing to not have a child for a woman is often encouraged culturally today and even usually requires active participation and real cost, both physically and financially, to the woman. Which begs the question, how can the Right effectively convince women to embrace motherhood amidst a culture so vehemently opposed to what is natural?

On the other hand, the harvest seems to be white for young men in America and many are refocusing their efforts to reach men who rightly hold a distaste for modern life. This political gap between the sexes is particularly strong in the younger generations and we are beginning to see the negative consequences when the divide gives way to resentment and competition. While the developments amongst young men are encouraging and hopefully continue, women cannot be ignored. To build something enduring than a passing trend on the Right, women embracing marriage and motherhood must be a part of the equation. Reaching women today will certainly be a more difficult task for the Right given the widespread adoption of feminism, which has become a bipartisan pillar in America. Even Megyn Kelly, a major voice on the Right, recently spoke to young women on her podcast telling women to never settle. A contrasting dose of reality from the Right will likely fall on deaf ears when the prevailing counter message to women is "you can have it all."

What many in our culture today fail to recognize is that there is real work to be done in the home, work that has significant civic benefits. As mainstream voices diminish and downplay the work of raising children, keeping a home and preparing meals each day, Christians are equipped for the task of offering a compelling and positive vision for women to seek motherhood. Motherhood is a good unto itself, like Keeperman observed, but there also is a relationship between the quality of American mothers and American greatness. A nation ought to have a real interest in the health of families and children, which in most cases relies heavily on the success of mothers. The physical health of Americans, for example, largely depends upon the work of mothers in the home preparing meals and cleaning the home. The MAHA supporters rightly decry the amount of processed foods offered to children, but we should also recognize that it is often mothers who are feeding the children these foods. Furthermore, in his often referenced work, Bowling Alone, Robert Putnam observed that women entering the workplace, beginning around the 1960s, was a major contributing factor in the decline of social capital in the United States. Families with both parents working outside the home does not allow time for civic engagement and community activities, which previously was often organized and coordinated by mothers and women. Additionally, the duty of caring for, instructing and educating children typically falls to the mothers at home. Mothers who work outside the home are not able to provide the necessary education for their young children and the public school system has failed the children of America. Mothers devoted to the home and the raising of their children are not only doing themselves and their families a service but also shaping the future of our communities and nation as they raise little Americans.

Publicly acknowledging and honoring the civic benefits of motherhood is not a new concept Americans, in fact, mothers have long been respected and valued in our nation's history. When Alexander de Tocqueville visited early America, he famously observed that the women of the young nation were largely unseen and yet essential to its success. He explained, "If anyone asks me what I think the chief cause of the extraordinary prosperity and growing power of this nation, I should answer that it is due to the superiority of their women." Founding Princeton Seminary professor, Archibald Alexander, wrote a letter of counsel to Christian mothers in 1844 in which he aimed "to arouse them to the consideration of the importance of the station which they occupy, and to persuade them to exert that influence which they possess." Alexander acknowledged the concern of insignificance many women had, even in the mid-nineteenth century, that their impact in society was minimal due to their station. Alexander, however, called such a notion a "flagrant miscalculation" and explained that their influence is real and effective. He went on to observe, "It may, in an important sense, be said that the Commonwealth has been preserved from utter destruction by the prudence, purity and piety of Virginian mothers. They have been the salt which has arrested the progress of moral corruption in the mass of society." Alexander understood that mothers and the home were essential for any hope of reformation or renewal of American social institutions, civil and religious. As President in 1905, Theodore Roosevelt compared wilful childlessness to a soldier who runs away in battle. Roosevelt didn't diminish the work of the mother in the home but instead ennobled the duties by connecting the dots between what they do at home and the greatness of America. He concluded his remarks by saying, "The woman's task is not easy--no task worth doing is easy--but in doing it, and when she has done it, there shall come to her the highest and holiest joy known to mankind; and having done it, she shall have the reward prophesied in Scripture; for her husband and her children, yes, and all people who realize that her work lies at the foundation of all national happiness and greatness, shall rise up and call her blessed."

Keeperman's warnings are timely, men and women should not be told to have children simply for the sake of revitalizing America or winning a political contest. It is, however, truthful and right to acknowledge women embracing motherhood as a natural vocation and good for our nation. Children are not a burden or obstacle for women as they aim to make an impact on society nor are they a means for a political end. Being a mother is a significant role, not only in the life of her children, but also in the life of a community. A woman devoting her life to motherhood is a life well worth living and we as a nation ought to honor and celebrate the responsibilities that come with such a vocation, especially when there are significant cultural headwinds cing from the other direction. Like de Tocqueville observed, a healthy America has women at home and out of the public sphere. And yet, it is in the home where women leave an indelible mark, not only on their families and children, but also on the future of America.

***
